What is cloud computing ?
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Instead of buying, owning, and maintaining physical data centres and servers
you can access technology services, such as computing power, storage, and databases, on an as-needed basis from a cloud provider like Amazon Web Services (AWS).

characteristics of cloud Computing:-
On-demand: Cloud users get what they need when they need it.
Anywhere: Cloud users can access their data and applications from anywhere.
Shared: Cloud providers share resources to save costs.
Scalable: Cloud users can scale up or down as needed.
Pay-as-you-go: Cloud users only pay for what they use.
Multi-tenant: Cloud providers can support multiple users on a single set of resources.

cloud deployment models: -
Public: Third-party, low cost, low control, low security, e.g. AWS
Private: Single org, high cost, high control, high security, e.g. Bank of America
Community: Group orgs, medium cost, medium control, medium security, e.g. Caltech
Hybrid: Mix of public, private, and community, varies, varies, varies, e.g. Netflix

Virtualization and Hypervisor:-
Virtualization is the process of creating a virtual version of something, such as a computer hardware platform. This allows multiple operating systems 
and applications to run on the same physical hardware.

Hypervisor is a software program that creates and manages virtual machines. It is the software layer that sits between the physical hardware 
and the virtual machines, and it is responsible for allocating resources to the virtual machines and ensuring that they do not interfere with each other.

In other words, virtualization is the concept of creating a virtual version of something, while a hypervisor is a specific type of software that creates 
and manages virtual machines.

You have a physical server with 16GB of RAM and 4 CPUs.
You install a hypervisor on the physical server.
The hypervisor creates two virtual machines.
The virtual machines can now run independently of each other, each with 4GB of RAM and 1 CPU
.
In this example, the hypervisor has virtualized the physical server's resources, which allows two operating systems to run on the same hardware.

IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS are three cloud computing service models that offer different levels of control and responsibility to the user.

infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) :- provides the basic building blocks for cloud computing, such as virtual machines, storage, and networking. IaaS users are 
responsible for managing their own operating systems, 
applications, and data.

Platform as a Service (PaaS) :- provides a development environment for building, testing, and deploying applications. PaaS users do not need to 
worry about managing the underlying infrastructure, such as servers, storage, and networking.

Software as a Service (SaaS) :- provides access to ready-made applications that are hosted in the cloud. SaaS users do not need to worry about managing any 
infrastructure or software

What is AWS? 
* AWS stands for Amazon Web Services. 
* The AWS service is provided by Amazon that uses distributed IT infrastructure to provide different IT  resources available on demand. It provides different 
services such as infrastructure as a service (IaaS),  platform as a service (PaaS) and packaged software as a service (SaaS).
* Amazon launched AWS, a cloud computing platform to allow different organizations to take advantage of reliable IT infrastructure. 

Uses of AWS 
* A small manufacturing organization uses their expertise to expand their business by leaving its IT  management to AWS. 
* A large enterprise spread across the globe can utilize AWS to deliver training to the distributed workforce. 
* An architecture consulting company can use AWS to get the high-compute rendering of construction prototypes. 
*  A media company can use AWS to provide different types of content such as ebox or audio files to the worldwide files. 


AWS Global Infrastructure Count?

AWS Global Infrastructure Map. The AWS Cloud spans 102 Availability Zones within 32 geographic regions around the world, with announced plans for 12
more Availability Zones and 4 more AWS Regionsin Canada, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Thaila

why do we use region in AWS? 
Improve reliability and fault tolerance, Reduce latency and improve performance, Meet compliance requirements, and Take advantage of lower pricing In short,
using regions in AWS can help us to build better and more cost-effective cloud applications.

What is service? & What are resources ?
AWS services are a set of capabilities that help customers build, deploy, and manage their applications. AWS resources are entities that you can create, manage, 
and use in AWS


